What did you learn during this project?
We learned how to use Github, Python, and Pygame to make a game in python. In the process of making the game we learned how to have the game run continuously at a consistent time. This meant having the FPS (frames per second) consistent so that the game’s speed didn’t change significantly as new entities were being drawn on the screen. We learned how to implement classes in Python, and how Sprites work in Pygame. We learned how to make the player and enemies move smoothly without jitters and how to have collision between entities (the bullets with the player and enemies in particular).

What did you enjoy during this project?
The project is a game, so we obviously enjoyed playing the game and making modifications to the game to make it more enjoyable. We enjoyed learning how to make multiple difficulties and playing through them. We also enjoyed making the art for the project as well. Another fun thing was changing the speeds the player, enemies, and bullets moved at to see what will give a more fun experience.

What did you find challenging or frustrating during this project?
We found making the enemies spawning and movement difficult. This included making an enemy class and a list of enemies to keep track of all of the enemies. We had to go through all the enemies in the list and have them moved and drawn where they were supposed to be at a reasonable speed. This was difficult since the enemy movement was significantly different from the player movement. We also had difficulties designing the menus because the text and placement of the buttons menus had to be made so that they fit together. Another difficulty was that we sometimes had the program not work or display anything when we changed parts of the program, so we had to work without definitive feedback on what we were doing during those times. We wanted to implement a way to go back to the menu of the game to start over without quitting out of the program, but just going back to the menu didn’t reset the game state, so we had to remove that as it was causing problems and we were close to the submission deadline. Sometimes we encountered commit errors when using Github and it was difficult to figure out how to merge two files that had been edited.

What did you find particularly helpful for your learning during this project?
We found that using the documentation on the pygame website combined with online guides on how to start using pygame was useful for starting the game and making sure it ran consistently. We also found that using discord to communicate with each other and using Github to share the code was helpful in keeping the code consistent without overlap or interference with different people working on the same aspect of the game simultaneously. Another thing that was helpful for our learning during this project was that every person in the project was using the same IDE for Python, so we can easily point out each line of code that may need to be modified or added. Another thing that was helpful when coding the project was that the IDE we used pointed out the accepted parameters for methods, helped fill out variable names, and clearly showed us where any problems in the code may be causing conflicts.
One really helpful video in particular was this 2 hour video on a space shooting game: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FfWpgLFMI7w
To learn about using Sprites in pygame we used the following Youtube video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-5GNbL33hz0
